Rick Condit Notes Jan 2020

Ben, the quick way to get this done would be to send me a table with
female counts and days. With every year in a single table, I can finish
all the calculations in a few minutes. I've done it for Mark Lowry a few
times.

If you can convert the day each year into a count of days since 1
December, that's what I use. That is, 1=1Dec, 2=2Dec, etc until 32=1Jan
etc and 63=1Feb. Then I want a season column, where season=2020 includes
Dec 2019 plus Jan-Mar 2020. So 3 total columns of data: season, day,
female count.

At some point, I will get code set up for you to use, but that will take
more time.

####--------------------------------------------

Results note from RC:

Ben and Sarah, here are all the results. Best now is for you to look
through the graphs, which show the counts and the fitted curve. For
starters, make sure outliers aren't simple errors, maybe just typos.
Once you're convinced errors are removed as best as possible, then maybe
you can account for some of the odd fluctuations by storm-induced
movements. But I notice that every year since 2011 at Drake and the
combined area, the models always fit counts very smoothly, and in most
years the fit is good. It's 3-4 odd years I wonder about.

The tables give estimated population size and the mean arrival date,
with 95% credible intervals for each. 

The arrival date is the date in January. The Pt Reyes dates closely match Año Nuevo arrival, around
11-13 Jan. The estimate census peak is given on the graphs, often 28-29
Jan, just as at Año Nuevo. (Notice that the peak date sometimes moves to
February, and peak=33 means 2 Feb.)  I've run this with Mark Lowry's
counts from the Channel Islands, and  those sites have the same arrival
dates too.

The next result you could check is whether the 3 sites add up to the
total every year. This usually works at Año Nuevo, where I fit
mainland-south, mainland-north, and island separately, then the total.
If there are years where it doesn't match, it might be because many
females moved in one direction. Then I would think the total is most
reliable.

An important feature of the calculations now is aimed to handle many
years of data from one site, such as this. Unlike what I published in
2007, the current model uses arrival information from all years
together, and in years with few censuses, it makes use of the mean
arrival date from the entire data. This shows up clearly in your data in
2019, where it does just what it's supposed to. Without any counts in
the first half of the season, there is no way of estimating the arrival
information, but it comes up with a good curve by assuming the arrival
date matches other years. You'll also see this in the very early years,
where the model attempts to come up with a curve matching the few counts.